we're gonna move along with art with our
content keep providing it for you as we
go on our next presenter today dr. ami
Klin he refers to himself as a walking
laboratory of social engagement and I'll
tell you the man was just minding his
own business at Yale and homedepot
co-founder Bernie Marcus went up there
and persuaded him to come down south
where he is now the new director of the
Marcus Autism Center he's here today to
share with us some viewpoints on how
early targeted social engagement with
autistic children can be an investment
in their future productivity and so I'd
like you to join me in welcoming him to
share an idea worth sharing autism
disruptions in early human social
adaptation mechanisms welcoming dr. al
McLean
[Applause]
well for me autism has been a personal
journey as I was introduced I always
wanted to become a walking Laboratory of
social engagement to to resonate other
people's feelings thoughts intentions
motivations in the act of being with
them as a scientist I always wanted to
measure that resonance that sense of the
other that happened so quickly in a
blink of an eye
wing to its other people's feelings we
know the meaning of their actions even
before they happen we're always in the
stands of being the object of somebody
else's subjectivity we do that all the
time
we just can't shake it off it's so
important that the very tools that we
use to understand ourselves to
understand the world around them is
shaped by that stance we are we're
social to the core so my journey in
autism really started when I lived in a
residential unit for adults with autism
most of those individuals had spent most
of their lives in long state hospitals
this is a long time ago and for them
autism was devastating they had profound
intellectual disabilities they didn't
talk but most of all they were
extraordinarily isolated from the world
around them from their environment and
from the people in fact at the time if
you walked into a school for individuals
of autism you hear a lot of noise plenty
of commotion actions people doing things
but they're always doing things by
themselves so they may be looking at the
light in the ceiling oh they may be
isolated in the corner or they might be
engaged in this repetitive movements in
self symmetry movements that let them
know where
extremely extremely isolated well now we
know that autism is this disruption the
disruption of this resonance that I'm
telling you these are survival skills
these are survival skills that we
inherited over many many hundreds of
thousands of years of evolution
you see babies are born in the state of
other fragility without the caregiver
they wouldn't survive so it stands to
reason that nature would endow them with
this mechanisms of survival they
oriented the caregiver from the first
days and weeks of life babies prefer to
hear human sounds rather than just
sounds in the environment they prefer to
look at people rather than at things and
even after looking at people they look
at people's eyes because the eye is the
window to the other person's experiences
so much so that they even prefer to look
at people who are looking at them rather
than people who are looking away
well they oriented the caregiver they
can't give a 60 baby and is out of this
mutually reinforcing choreography that a
lot that is of importance to the
emergence of mind the social mind the
social brain dependent we always think
about autism as as something that
happens later on in life it doesn't it
begins at the beginning of life as
babies engage with caregivers they soon
realize that um well there is something
in between the ears that is very
important is invisible you can't see but
it's really critical and that thing is
called attention and they learn soon
enough even before they can utter one
word that it can take that attention and
move somewhere in order to get things
they want they also learn to follow
other people's gaze because whatever
people are looking at is what they're
thinking about and soon enough they
start to learn about the meaning of
things
because when somebody is looking at
something or somebody is pointing at
something they're not just getting a
directional cue they are getting the
other person's meaning of that thing the
attitude and soon enough they start
building this body of meanings but
meanings that were acquired within the
realm of social interaction those are
meanings that are acquired as part of
their share experiences with others well
this is a little 50 month old little
girl and she has autism and I am coming
so close to her that I'm maybe 2 inches
from her face and she's quite oblivious
to me imagine if I did that to you and I
came 2 inches from your face you do
probably two things wouldn't you you
would recoil you call the police
you do something because it's virtually
impossible to penetrate somebody's
physical space and not get that reaction
we do so remember intuitively
effortlessly this is our body wisdom is
not something that is mediated by a
language our body just knows that and
we've known that for a long time and
this is not something that happens to
humans only it happens to some of our
fallacy cousins because if you're a
monkey and you look at another monkey
and that monkey has a higher hierarchy
position than you and that is considered
to be a signal threat well you are not
going to be alive for long so something
that in other species are survival
mechanisms without them they wouldn't
they wouldn't basically live we bring
into the context of human beings and
this is what we need to simply act act
socially now she is oblivious to me and
I'm so close to her and you think he'll
maybe she can see you maybe she can hear
you well a few minutes later she goes to
the corner of the room and she finds a
tiny little piece of candy an M&M so I
could not attract her attention but
something a thing did
now most of us make a big dichotomy
between the world of things and the
world of people now for this girl
that the vision line is not so clear and
the world people is not attracting her
as much as we would like now remember
that we learn a great deal by sharing
experiences now what she is doing right
now is that her path of learning is
diverging moment by moment as she is
isolating himself further and further so
we feel sometimes that the brain is
deterministic the brain determines we
were going to be but in fact the brain
also becomes we are and at the same time
the her behaviors are taking away from
the realm of social interaction this is
what's happening with their mind and
this is what's happening with her brain
well autism is the most strongly genetic
condition of all developmental disorders
and it's a brain disorder is a disorder
that begins much prior to the time that
the child is born we now know that there
is a very broad spectrum of autism
there are those individuals who are
profoundly intellectually disabled but
there are those that are gifted there
are those individuals who don't talk at
all there are those individuals who talk
too much there are those individuals
that if you observe them in their school
you see them running the periphery fence
of the school day if you let them to
those individuals who cannot stop coming
to you and trying to engage you
repeatedly relentlessly but often in an
awkward fashion without that immediate
resonance well this is much more
prevalent than we thought at the time
when I started in this field we thought
that they were for individuals with
autism for 10,000 a very rare condition
well now we now it's more like 1 in 100
there are millions of individuals of
autism all around
the societal cost of this condition is
huge in the US alone maybe 35 to 80
billion dollars and you know what most
of those funds are associated with
adolescents and particularly adults who
are severely disabled individuals who
need wraparound service the services
that are very very intensive and those
services can cost in excess of 60 to 80
thousand dollars a year those are
individuals who did not benefit from
early treatment because now we know that
what doesn't create itself as they
diverge in that pathway of learning that
I mentioned to you were we to be able to
identify this condition that at earlier
point and intervene and treat I can tell
you and this has been probably something
that has changed my life in the past ten
years
this notion that we can absolutely
attenuate this condition also we have a
window of opportunity because the brain
is malleable for just so long and that
window of opportunity happens in the
first three years of life it's not that
that window closes it doesn't but it
diminishes considerably and yet the
median age of diagnosis in this country
is still about five years and in
disadvantaged populations the
populations that don't have access to
clinical services rural populations
minorities the age of diagnosis is later
still which is almost as if I were to
tell you that we are condemning those
communities to have individuals of
autism
whose condition is going to be more
severe so I feel that we have a
biological imperative the science is
there but no science is of relevance if
it doesn't have an impact you see and we
just can't afford that missed
opportunity because children reporters
and become adults with autism and we
feel that those things that we can do
for these children for those families
early on will have lifetime consequences
for the child for the family and for the
community at large so this is our view
of autism there are over a hundred genes
that are associated devotees I mean in
fact we
leave that there going to be something
between 300 and 600 genes associated
with autism and genetic anomalies much
more than just genes and we actually
have a bit of a question here because if
there are so many different causes of
autism how do you go from those
liabilities to the actual syndrome
because people like myself when we walk
into a playroom we recognize a child
does have a autism so how do you go from
multiple causes to a syndrome that has
some homogeneity and the answer is what
lies in between which is development and
in fact we are very interested in those
first two years of life because those
liabilities don't necessarily convert
into autism autism creates itself where
we to be able to intervene during those
years of life we might attenuate for
some and God knows maybe even prevent
for others so how do we do that how do
we enter that feeling of resonance how
do we enter another person's being I
remember when I interacted with that 15
month older that the things that came to
my mind was how do you how do you come
into her world is she thinking about me
is she thinking about others well it's
hard to do that so we had to create the
technologies we had to basically step
inside a body we had to see the world
through her eyes and so in the past many
years we've been sort of building these
new technologies that are based on eye
tracking we can see moment by moment
what children are engaging with well
this is my colleague Warren Jones with
whom we've been building this methods
the studies for the past twelve years
and you see they're happy five months
older it's a five-month
little boy who is going to watch things
that are brought from his world his mom
the caregiver but also experiences that
he would have were he to be in his in
his steak
what we want is to embrace that world
and bring it into our laboratory but in
order for us to do that we had to create
this very sophisticated measures
measures of how people how little babies
how newborns engage with the world
moment by moment what is important and
what is not well we created those
measures and here what you see is what
we call a funnel of attention you're
watching a video those frames are
separated by about a second through the
eyes of 35 typically developing
two-year-olds and we freeze one frame
and this is what the typical children
are doing in this campus in green here
are two-year-olds of autism so on that
frame the children who are typical are
watching this the emotional expression
of that little boy as he's fighting a
little bit with the little girl what are
the children of autism doing they are
focusing on the revolving door opening
and shutting well I can tell you that
this divergence that you're seeing here
doesn't happen all in our 5-minute
experiments it happens moment by moment
in the real lives and their minds are
being formed and our brains are being
specialized in something other than what
is happening with the typical peers well
we took a construct from our
pediatrician friends the concept of
growth charts you know when you take a
child to the pediatrician and so you
have physical height and weight what we
decided they were going to create growth
charts of social engagement and we saw
children from the time that they are
born and what you see here on the x-axis
is two three four five six months and
nine until about the age of 24 months
and this is the percent of their viewing
time that they're focusing on people's
eyes and this is their growth chart they
start over here they love people's eyes
and it remains quite stable
goes up a little bit in those initial
months now let's see what's happening
with babies who became autistic it's
something very different
it starts way up here but that it's a
freefall it's very much like they
brought into this world a reflex that
Orient's them to people but he has no
traction it's almost as if that stimulus
you you're not exerting influence on
what happens as they navigate their
daily lives now we we thought that those
data were were so powerful in a way that
we wanted to see what happened in the
first six months of life because if you
were into if you interact with a two and
a three month older you'd be surprised
by how social those babies are and what
we see in the first six months of life
is that those two groups can be
segregated very easily and using these
kinds of measures and many others what
we found out is that our science could
in fact identify this condition early on
we didn't have to wait for the behaviors
of what isn't to emerge and the second
year of life if we measure things that
are evolutionarily highly conserved and
developmentally very early emerging
things that are online from the first
weeks of life we could push the
detection of autism all the way to those
first months and that's what we are
doing now now we can create the very
best technologies in the very best
methods to identify the children but
this would be for not if we didn't have
an impact on what happens in their
realities in the community now we want
those devices of course to be deployed
by those who are in the trenches our
colleagues the primary care physicians
who see every child and we need to
transform those technologies into
something that is going to add value to
their practice because they have to see
so many children and we want to do that
universally so that we don't miss any
child but this would be immoral if we
also did not have an infrastructure
for intervention for treatment we need
to be able to work with the families to
support the families to manage those
first years with them we need to be able
to really go from Universal screening
tuna versal access to treatment because
those treatments are going to change
these children's and those families
lives now when we think about what we
can't do in those first years I I can
tell you having been in this field for
so long one feels really rejuvenated
there is a sense that the science the
one worked on can actually have an
impact on reality's preventing in fact
those experiences that I really started
in my journey in this field I thought at
the time that this was an intractable
condition no longer we can do a great
deal of things and the idea is not to
cure autism that's not the idea
what we want is to make sure that those
individuals of autism can be free from
the devastating consequences
the come up with the times the profound
intellectual disabilities the lack of
language the profound profound isolation
we feel the individuals of autism in
fact have a very special perspective on
the world and we need diversity and they
can work extremely well in some areas of
strength predictable situations
situations that can be defined because
after all they learn about the world
almost like about it rather than
learning how to function in it
but this is a strength if you're working
for example in technology and there are
those individuals who have incredible
artistic abilities we want them to be
free of that we want the next
generations of individuals of autism
will be able not only to express their
strengths but to fulfill their progress
well thank you for listening to me
dr. Flynn thank you
you know this talk is generating quite a
lot of talk all over the web right now
that a lot of a lot of tweeting going on
obviously a lot of interest around the
issue of autism and I'm I'm curious to
know whether there are some new
caregiving norms that you see that you
mentioned that early intervention is the
key but if there isn't early diagnosis
is there a look that caregivers should
perhaps be evolving into new ways of
caring for children that might be
helpful well there are ways of
identifying children early the fact that
there is a slow uptake of that has
something to do with the fact that
people need to know out there that we
can do a great deal for these children
and for families but the interesting
thing is that the forms of treatment
that are available now are not forms of
treatments that would be that will be
taking place in the center they take
place in the homes basically what those
treatments are doing is is potentiating
whatever caregiver does we need to make
sure that those signals the
communication signals the social
engagement that that happens not in the
treatment session that would take place
for like 30 minutes a day we need
basically every moment in these
children's lives to be a treatment
moment and for that we need to both
support and train parents and that's the
way that those early forms of treatment
take place so there is plenty to do out
there well it looks like people are
interested in that thank you so very
much dr. klahn
you